# Lorenz

This projects implements the Lorenz attractor, devised by Edward Lorenz in his 1963 paper [1] in the Python programming language. The Lorenz attractor is a mathematical model for atmospheric convection and is described by non-linearly coupled ordinary differential equations (ODEs). The equations are parameterised by sigma, beta and rho. 5 different cases of these paramters are given as:

1. sigma = 10, beta = 8/3, rho = 6
2. sigma = 10, beta = 8/3, rho = 16
3. sigma = 10, beta = 8/3, rho = 28
4. sigma = 14, beta = 8/3, rho = 28
5. sigma = 14, beta = 13/3, rho = 28

Refer to report.pdf for a report on this project.

[1] E. N. Lorenz, “Deterministic nonperiodic flow,” Journal of Atmospheric Sciences,  vol. 20, pp. 130–141, 1963.


The structure of this repository is as follows (please refer to /doc/_build/html/index.html for a full explanation of the module and functions):
&ensp;    lorenz (package)  
 &ensp;       __init__.py  
&ensp;        run.py: Run this file to simulate the Lorenz attractor.  
        solver.py:  Solves the system.  
        finiteDifferences.py: Used by solver.py to solve the equations.  
        plotting.py: Plots the results.  
    cases  
        run_case.py Generate data and plot for a case. Change the case number in the file to change which of the above cases should be used.  
        generate_cases_CSV.py Generates the scheme_variables.csv file.  
        generate_data_and_figures.py Function used by run_case to generate data and figures for a given case.  
        output_files/  
            Folder containing the output data and figures generated by the above files.  
    test/  
        Contains test files. To test the lorenz package, run `pytest` from the command line in the root of the repository. 
